>> Brian Holt: So hopefully most of you
were able to get this integrated into
your editor.
That'll be super helpful as we keep going.
Throughout the course today,
I will be pushing out branches so
that you can kind of see where we are.
And if you get lost or fall behind,
this is a really easy way to catch up so
you don't have to stay behind, right?
So I just pushed up v3-1,
right there, you can see that.
And as we keep going I'll just keep
incrementing that second number.
So yeah, you're welcome to go fetch v3-1,
check it out and then you can start going.
So just to show you how that works if
you're not super familiar with Git.
You would say, making sure that
you're let's key, git remote -vv.
So making sure that your URL looks
something like this for origin,
that you're pointed at
btholt/complete-intro-to-react, right?
Then you're gonna say git fetch
origin v3-1, right?
And then you're gonna say
git checkout v3-1 and
that'll switch you on to
the branch that has all that code.
>> Brian Holt: And again, you can do
that throughout the day as I keep
pushing branches.
>> Brian Holt: And for those of you that
are watching right now, and they're here,
if you fall behind, just ask me to
push a branch, I'm happy to do that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so,
let's go back to my notes here.
Hopefully you got it
integrated into your browser.
The notes that I have there in my
particular notes are for Sublime, so
if you're not using Sublime these
are not super useful to you.
But hopefully the different
editor integrations are pretty,
hopefully their notes were useful for
how to do it.
>> Brian Holt: There was a couple
of people here that had issues
with yarn global adds.
I've had this issue as well and
I do not remember how I solved it.
It's typically a problem if you
install node via MVM or N or
one of those node version managers.
So what I'm going to tell you to do
right now to get around this issue,
is just say npm install --global and
just use that for
all of your global installs and then later
look up how to fix yarn global adds.
So this is how you would do it for
prettier.
Yeah, for now, so that we can keep going,
just do npm install --global.
>> Brian Holt: Great,
any other questions before I move forward?
>> Mark: And also when you do git checkout
v3-1 and if you're getting errors and
you wanna just blow out your local
changes, it can just add a -f.
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> Mark: And then, of course and.
>> Brian Holt: So git checkout-
>> Mark: Yeah, fetch there.
>> Brian Holt: Checkout v3-1 --force.
Just, anytime you're using get and
--force, just exercise extra caution.
That's only the other thing
I want to caution you.
Okay, so we're good with prettier-
>> Mark: People are saying that
in the x.html on that branch is actually
not pointing to the ClientApp.jsx.
>> Brian Holt: It's not, yeah,
I know I broke it, for sure.
We're going to unbreak it.
>> Mark: All right.
>> Brian Holt: This is the workshop
of breaking and unbreaking things.
>> Brian Holt: But that's astute,
I would say the best way to code is have
300 people watching while you do it.
>> Brian Holt: Or 200,
I think that's where we were at.
Okay, so we're gonna move onto ESLint.
We shouldn't have to mess with
Prettier for the rest of the time,
it's just gonna work magically.
Sometimes, for example this is kind of
something that's easy get thrown off.
Let's say I have invalid JavaScript here,
right?
So say if I am I don't know,
say I have this right, so
I would expect this to fix with Prettier,
right?
And it's not if say it right now, because
this is not valid JavaScript right now, so
if you have syntax errors,
Prettier can't fix everything, right?
So, it's gonna depend on
your various editors,
how you know that that's happening.
It's kinda hard to tell with Sublime,
with sublime you actually have to open
the console which I think is Ctrl+Tilde.
Yeah, and so
you can see here Prettier returned with
2 which means it didn't exit correctly.
So you can see right here,
syntax error, unexpected token.
So, you have to make sure that
you have valid JavaScript or
else Prettier is not gonna work.
So now as I fix it then it fixes
everything and everything works well.
>> Brian Holt: So this will only be
a problem temporarily because we're gonna
put in ESLint and ESLint will first tell
that it failed before Prettier fails.
So,
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so ESLint.
>> Brian Holt: So Prettier is just gonna
take care of stylistically things, right?
It's not actually gonna handle code style,
I guess what I'm trying to say there is.
It's gonna handle syntax things,
spaces, how many characters go in line?
That's all that Prettier worries about,
it doesn't actually worry about things
like,
>> Brian Holt: Not using old JavaScript
features that you don't wanna use, or
enforcing ES6 rules or things like that.
So we are gonna bring in other tool called
ESLint to kind of help out with some
of those rule.
And again, previously in this class,
we had used something called standard,
this is driven my desire
to never write semicolons.
And in fact, I got a lot of blow-back for
not continuing to use standard, but
the reason being is that the Airbnb ESLint
configurals have really matured to
the point where I feel like I don't
have a good reason not to use them.
Because it catches so many bugs and
it enforces really good code style.
So, today we're gonna be using the AirbnB
config together with Prettier and
I think that's a really
winning combination.
So the first thing we're gonna do
now is we're going to create a file
called .ESLint,
>> Brian Holt: RC.json,
and we are going to put this in
the root directory of our project.
>> Brian Holt: So just use that, so this
is going to be the config for our ESLint.
And we're gonna put some
configurals in here.
So the first one is extends,
>> Brian Holt: And
the order here is important, so
make sure you put these in this order.
The first thing you wanna put is airbnb,
the second one is prettier, and
the third one is prettier/react.
Now, why are we pulling in Prettier?
Well, the reason why we're pulling in
Prettier is that Prettier actually
invalidates some of the things
that Airbnb check for, right?
Airbnb will check for things like too many
characters on a line, it's gonna check for
things like semi-colons, it is gonna
check for thing like white spaces.
This is not actually useful for Airbnb
like the ESLint to check for anymore.
So these prettier and
prettier/react actually disable a bunch
of rules just to make sure that Prettier
can run without ESLint yelling about it,
does that make sense, right?
It's just getting rid
of a lot of the noise.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, the next thing
we're going to put is plugins.
>> Brian Holt: And we're just gonna have
one which is gonna be the prettier plugin,
so that we can run those rules.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're gonna put some parserOptions.
>> Brian Holt: And ecmaVersion,
>> Brian Holt: I have 2016 on here,
I think that was the latest one
I was working when I wrote this.
It might be later now, but as long s
you're past 2015 you should be golden.
Source type, so
we're gonna be using ES6 modules today,
that particular way of writing JavaScript.
So we're not going to use CommonJS in
other words, so that's what that means.
>> Brian Holt: And then ecmaFeatures,
we want to tell it that
it needs to pass JSX,
which is true, it does.
And then the last thing is env, which
is just telling it what environment,
what global variables to not fail you on.
So es6, so this will tell it not to fail
on things like symbol for example, right?
Symbol is only available in ES6.
Browser, this is telling it not
to fail in things like Window and
document and things like that.
>> Brian Holt: And lastly, node, so this
is telling it to not fail in other things
like process.env, right,
which is only available in Node.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and this should be
our Airbnb config, this should work for
a while, we'll have to modify it later to
accommodate more features as we add them.
But this should be enough for now.
>> Brian Holt: So, now we can come
back here to our command line,
I have ESLint installed here,
but if you don't then feel
free to do yarn global add or
npm install -- global eslint.
>> Brian Holt: And I'm going to say eslint
**/*., either js or jsx.
>> Brian Holt: And I want it to be quiet.
>> Brian Holt: So this is gonna run
the rules we just barely brought in and
is running on ClientApp.jsx, and
it has these two violations.
It says ReactDOM is not defined,
and React is not defined, right?
Which would make sense if we
go back to our ClientApp.jsx,
we're referring to React, and,
>> Brian Holt: ReactDOM down here.
And they're being brought in
via those script tags, but
we actually haven't,
>> Brian Holt: We
haven't set those apart
as global variables.
>> Speaker 3: Did you install ESLint?
>> Brian Holt: I did, so I did npm install
--global eslint
>> Speaker 3: Okay, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: I think we missed that step.
>> Speaker 3: We missed that step.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: And, yeah go ahead Mark.
>> Mark: Doug's asking if you can
elaborate on the difference between
Prettier, ESLint, and Airbnb?
>> Brian Holt: Sure, so Prettier is
a formatter, so all it does it takes your
code and it rearranges it into a nicely
formatted piece of code, right?
It doesn't do any checking for style,
it doesn't do any checking for,
like for example we have,
if we run that again.
This is what ESLint's checking for,
it's checking for
more things like did you use
something that was undefined?
Are you calling functions
that don't exist, right?
It's gonna check for
more of those sorts of things.
>> Brian Holt: Whereas Prettier
is just taking one blob of text,
reformatting it and
then printing it back out.
Doesn't change anything
else about your code.
Airbnb, so it's actually
eslint-config-airbnb is what it's called.
>> Brian Holt: So this is a specific
configuration of ESLint, right,
that's all it is.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah, that's the
difference, one formats, one checks for
style, and
one is just the configuration of ESLint.
It's a good question.
>> Brian Holt: Do you have a question?
>> Speaker 5: I'm getting an error ESLint.
>> Brian Holt: What error are you getting?
>> Speaker 5: Argument list too long.
>> Speaker 6: So I'm having one
that says it's looking for ESLint,
hyphen plugin, hyphen prettier,
when I try to run the ESLint quite.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, it should be in here.
I guess more package.json.
>> Brian Holt: Eslint-config-prettier
right there.
>> Speaker 6: And
I'll try reinstalling it.
>> Speaker 7: It was plugin-prettier.
>> Brian Holt: Did you miss
the plugin-prettier part?
>> Speaker 7: Potentially.
>> Brian Holt: So what we're
gonna do now is we're gonna take
this eslint part right here,
this command that we just ran.
>> Brian Holt: I want you to copy that.
Now, [COUGH] we'll eventually fix
the errors that are coming out of it,
like the arguments list is too long and
all that.
Cuz we're gonna blow away all the code
that we wrote anyway and write new code.
So I'm not super interested in fixing it,
but we're going to put
the lint in here as well.
So lint and we're going to do that.
>> Brian Holt: So again, this is if
your companions don't necessarily want
to,
>> Brian Holt: Integrate ESLint into their
editor and all that kinda stuff.
You can put this in and
it can also run continuous integration.
So if for
example you fail your ESLint pass,
it would fail the build and then they
have to go back and fix it, right?
>> Brian Holt: So now we've done that
which I just put into this line right
here.
Then I'm gonna say,
>> Brian Holt: yarn lint and
it should work.
Reason why we did quiet, just so you know,
is we want it to only show errors and
not warnings.
>> Brian Holt: Again, that's typically for
a continuous integration.
You don't wanna fail your build just for
warnings, you wanna fail it just on error.